GitLine Support for Product Builders
=========

GitLine layers GitHub pages with additional buttons though for SPL development:

<b>ProductFork</b> derives a Product Repository from a Core Asset Repository

<b>UpdatePropagation</b> Updates core assets instantiated during Product Fork Operation and

<b>FeedbackPropagation</b> proposes product specific changes to Core Asset Repositories. Using Web Augmentation techniques, these buttons enact the namesake operations, i.e. repositories are accessed through GitHub's APIs, and extra iFrames are popped-up, should additional interactions with the user be needed
Repository Branching model 
---------
Our branching model for Product repositories rests on seven branch types to account for three purposes: development, delivery and propagation.


<b>For development</b>: BigBang, Develop and Custom branches. Product Repository is initialized with BigBang and develop branches. Users should create Custom branches off Develop when additional assets customization is needed.
 
	BigBang is a long-lived branch, which keeps localized the baseline from which the product was derived.This branch remains untouched, during the repository life time. This is so, to enable feedback propagation process (see later).

	Develop branch is a long-lived branch which holds the mainline for product asset development. It is also known as 'integration branch'

	Custom branches, obtained off Develop branches, are used for product speciffics: core assets can be adapted while brand new assets can be introduced. When a customization is considered finished, Custom branches are merged back into Develop branch. Although good practices would advocate to delete Custom branches after merging them back to the mainline, our model maintains these branches alive for feedback purposes.


<b>For Delivery</b>: Release and Master branches. Users should create these branches when necessary.

	Release branches are short-lived branches, which upon a consistent set of product assets under a Develop branch, are created for obtaining an executable product with the help of assembly tools. When this product is ready for GA Release, it would be merged to the Master branch and tagged accordingly.

	Master is a long-lived branch containing product releases ready to be delivered to customers.


<b>For Propagation</b>: Update and FeedBack branches. These branches are automatically generated by GitLine. Users should not 'modify' its contents 

	Update branch: holds the product's core assets separated from the product mainline (i.e. develop branch). Upon a new baseline release in the CoreAsset repository, product engineers might request an update propagation and easily spot differences using GitHubs diff tooling. This branch is automatically generated when the Product Repository is created.

	Feedback branches support promotion of meaningful product customizations into core assets. By meaningful is meant a customization that makes sense as a unit. This might imply collecting code scattered throughout several Custom branches. These branches are automatically generated by GitLine upon 'Feedback Propagation' operation enactment.
Note that branch names follow the pattern 'branch-type'.'branch-name'. E.g., update.updates.


 Operations For propagation
---------


<b>Update propagation</b> is performed by application engineers upon a Product Repository. Engineers should checkout update branch, to see 'Update Propagation' button. On clicking, a pop-up displays a table with the summary of changes to be pulled: a list of rows with the name of the updated core asset, and a link to the Core-Asset-repository's commits describing those changes (New commits). Following these links brings product engineers to the Core Asset realm by opening a new browser tab, where the asset evolution is shown in a diff panel. If accepted Application engineers are notiffied through a new pull request to merge update branch into develop branch.


<b>FeedBack propagation</b> is performed over a Product repository. Engineers should checkout anny custom branch to see 'Feedback Propagation' button. On clicking, a pop-up lists all Custom branches that the Product repository holds. Users can now select the desired customization. When enacted, behind the scenes, a new Feedback branch is created, and the Core Asset repository receives a pull request coming from the product repository to merge the changes located in the newly created feedback branch.
